C&C 3D -- macOS build
=====================

Command & Conquer with the Nintendo 64's camera and 3D models, running on the
original 1995 Tiberian Dawn game logic (the GPL source, built here as
TiberianDawn.dylib) with the original MS-DOS sidebar, infantry, music and
speech. The build number is printed in the bottom right corner of the main
menu dialog. That is the first thing to quote in a bug report.


FIRST LAUNCH: MACOS GETS IN THE WAY ONCE
----------------------------------------
Nothing here is signed or notarised, and anything downloaded from GitHub
arrives with macOS's quarantine flag set. That shows up in one of two ways.

  "cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified"
      The plain refusal.

  "Could not find the game."
      Less obvious, and it is the same cause. macOS runs an unsigned,
      quarantined app from a hidden temporary copy of the app ALONE, without
      the files next to it, so the app opens and then cannot see the game.

AS OF v0.5.9 C&C3D HANDLES BOTH ON ITS OWN. If it finds itself running from
the temporary copy it goes looking for the real folder in the usual places
(Downloads, Desktop, Applications, your home folder), starts the game from
there, and clears the quarantine flag so it does not happen again. If it
cannot find the folder it asks you to point at it, once.

So the expected experience is: double-click C&C3D, approve one prompt if macOS
shows one, and play. If you would rather clear the flag yourself first, this
is still the route that works on every version of macOS -- in Terminal type
the line below, then a SPACE, then drag the folder in from the Finder (which
types its path for you), then press return:

    xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine

Through the Finder it is instead one approval per file, and recent versions of
macOS moved where you give it: try right click -> Open first, and if that
dialog offers no Open button, the approval is waiting in System Settings ->
Privacy & Security, on a line naming whatever was just blocked.


IT NEEDS macOS 14 OR NEWER
--------------------------
The binaries are built with a deployment target of macOS 14 (Sonoma). That is not a
preference: the SDL libraries shipped beside them are themselves built for 14, so it
is the lowest floor this build can have without different SDL binaries. On macOS 13
or older the system refuses to load it before the game starts, and the message you
get will not mention the version.

APPLE SILICON NEEDS ROSETTA 2
-----------------------------
The binaries are x86_64 only. On an M-series Mac, macOS offers to install
Rosetta 2 the first time you launch one; say yes and it works from then on.
On an Intel Mac there is nothing to install.


HOW TO START IT
---------------
TWO PROGRAMS SHIP HERE, and which one a launcher runs decides what the picture
looks like before you touch anything.

  cnc3d      the game: main menu, movies, campaign, score screens. It starts
             with the ENHANCED picture on.
  cnc_eyes   the renderer on its own, straight into one mission, no menu. It
             starts with the CLASSIC picture, the one this project drew before
             any of the enhancement existed.

Both draw the same world. Either can be switched to the other picture while it
is running, from the Visuals screen described below.

    THERE IS ONE THING TO RUN

    C&C3D.app             That is the game. START NEW GAME runs the GDI
                          campaign; TEST MAP is the sandbox with the full
                          build list. ESC opens Options.

Enhanced Visuals are on, with the 640x480 sidebar HUD. Everything the old
launchers used to pick for you is a setting inside the game now, under
Options -> Visuals: CLASSIC for the 1995 presentation, ENHANCED for this one,
and ADVANCED for the individual switches. Your choices are remembered.

THE THIRTEEN .command LAUNCHERS ARE GONE, and if you have them from an older
build you can delete them. They existed for one reason and it was a defect
rather than a feature: two data paths defaulted to folders that exist only in
the development tree, so nothing could be started without a script passing them
in. The game now finds its own data and runs with no arguments at all.

The two plain binaries beside the app, cnc3d and cnc_eyes, are what the app runs
and what the verification suite drives. Neither is meant to be double-clicked.

Keep the folder together and start the game from inside it. The packs, the
missions/ folder, content/ and dosdata/ are all found relative to the app's own
folder, which is why it should stay where it is; put an alias on the Desktop
rather than moving it.
Moving one launcher out on its own will not work.


THE CONTROLS
------------
The mouse works the way the 1995 game's did, which as of v0.5.9 is also the way
this build does. It is NOT the modern right-click-to-move scheme.

  LEFT click        Selects what you click on. With something already selected,
                    clicking bare ground MOVES there and clicking an enemy
                    ATTACKS it. Clicking another of your own units selects that
                    unit instead of ordering the first one to shoot it.
  LEFT drag         Rubber-band select. SHIFT adds to the selection.
  RIGHT click       Cancels. It leaves building placement, leaves repair or
                    sell mode, and otherwise deselects. It never gives orders.
  CTRL + LEFT       Force fire: attack whatever is under the pointer, including
                    your own buildings and bare ground.
  ALT + LEFT        Force move: go there without picking a fight on the way.

The pointer itself always tells you which of these you are about to get: it is
the game's own order preview, so the arrow, the move circle, the crosshair and
the select brackets are the answer the engine would actually give.

  S or X            Stop.       G or Z   Guard.      M   Radar on/off.
  SPACE             Pause.      TAB      Step one frame while paused.
  C                 Switch between the N64 camera and the flat 1995-style one.
  F5                The Enhanced Visuals tuning panel.
  ESC               Pause menu / options.


THE ENHANCED VISUALS
--------------------
The Tier 2 presentation chain is supersampling, sun and shadows, bloom,
ambient occlusion, dynamic light from explosions and gunfire, colour grading,
and an optional CRT pass. Whether it is running when the window opens depends
on which entry point you used, and the two lists above are that split. Three
ways to change it:

  * VISUALS. On the main menu it is its own button; in a mission, press ESC
    and it is on the pause dialog. Classic or Enhanced, with a checkbox per
    element behind Advanced. Live, in either program, either way round -- so
    a cnc_eyes launcher can be turned Enhanced, and C&C3D.app back to Classic,
    without restarting.

  * TUNE-PRESENTATION.command boots with the F5 dial panel already open, every
    slider live over the running game. Its SAVE button writes cnc3d-fx.cfg into
    this folder. THAT FILE IS THE DELIVERABLE: send it back and its numbers
    become the build's defaults.

  * From Terminal, ./cnc3d --classic starts with the chain off entirely.

WHAT A SAVED cnc3d-fx.cfg DOES, AND WHAT IT DOES NOT. Only cnc3d reads it, only
at startup, only under that exact name, and only from the folder the game was
launched in. So it reaches the four entry points in the first list and none of
the ten in the second: a cnc_eyes launcher ignores the file completely, whether
it is sitting there or not. And it changes WHICH numbers the chain uses, never
whether the chain runs. cnc3d is enhanced with or without the file; cnc_eyes is
classic with or without it. To see which happened, read the Terminal window
behind the game: cnc3d prints either "FX|preset|cnc3d-fx.cfg: 60 applied" or
"FX|no preset ...; enhanced with the shipped defaults", and cnc_eyes prints no
FX line at all.

No cnc3d-fx.cfg is included here on purpose, so this package and the Windows
package of the same build start from the same numbers.


IF IT DOES NOT START
--------------------
Open Terminal, drag the folder in after `cd `, press return, then run

    ./cnc3d

and send everything it prints. (Running it this way bypasses the app bundle,
so it also tells you whether the problem is the game or the launcher.) The first few lines are the graphics driver
answering what it can do, which is the first question worth asking on a machine
this build has not run on before.


WHAT IS NOT IN THIS FOLDER
--------------------------
The gate suite and its 400-odd proof screenshots. They are how the build is
verified, they are more than a quarter of a gigabyte, and they are of no use to
anyone playing the game. They stay in the developer's working copy.
