OpenCNC 3D MODEL GALLERY
===================

Every 3D asset on the Command & Conquer (Nintendo 64) cartridge: 202 models,
11,080 triangles, with the cartridge's own textures, names and pivots.


RUNNING IT
----------

This is a website, not a document. It has to be SERVED, because it loads its
geometry as a binary file and a browser refuses that over file://.

Open a terminal in this folder and run:

    python3 -m http.server 8110

then open http://localhost:8110 in a browser.

(On Windows without Python: any static web server will do, or drag the folder
into VS Code and use its Live Server extension.)


WHAT IS IN IT
-------------

Click a thumbnail to open a model. Drag to orbit, wheel to zoom, shift+drag to
pan, left/right arrows to step through the category, Esc to close.

24 models carry an animation and play it. The bar under the model has play and
pause (space), a frame scrubber (, and . step one frame) and two rules to play
by: GAME DRIVER runs the clip the way the game runs it, at the speed the game
runs it, and WHOLE CLIP runs the whole thing at the pack's own 15 frames a second
so you can see the parts the game never plays. Where a building's clip has more
than one animation in it, a second dropdown picks which.

The buttons under the model:

  textured       the cartridge's own texture sheets on or off
  vertex colour  the baked shading on or off (this IS the cartridge's lighting;
                 the N64 never lit these meshes at run time)
  wireframe      the raw triangles
  GDI palette    decode through the cartridge's GDI colour table instead of the
                 Nod/neutral one. Sand and gold instead of blue-grey and red.
                 Only lights up on models that actually differ between the two.
  spin           turntable

The panel on the right is the model's paperwork: where its name came from, its
parts and the exact pivot each one rotates about, its textures, its animation
clip, and how many pieces it assembles from while it is being built.


EXPORTING
---------

EXPORT      the model you are looking at
EXPORT ALL  all 202, or only the ones the category chip and the search box are
            currently showing

Both ask for a format:

  FBX 7.4 binary (default)  Keeps the node hierarchy and the cartridge's own
                            pivots, so a turret still rotates about the point
                            the game rotates it about, and the animation as real
                            curves with every key on a whole frame. The file
                            declares the frame rate the game plays that model at,
                            so the timeline plays at the right speed. Blender
                            reads binary FBX only. This is the format to use if
                            a model is going to an artist and coming back.
  OBJ + MTL                 Universal. Carries no pivots: a turret arrives as
                            loose geometry.
  glTF 2.0                  Web-native, with the baked vertex colours as COLOR_0
                            and an unlit material, which is what the cartridge
                            actually is.

and two options: whether to include the texture PNGs, and which house palette
to decode them through. Anything more than a single file arrives as a .zip.


A NOTE ON HOW THINGS LOOK
-------------------------

The models are dark. That is correct: the cartridge bakes its shading into the
vertex colours and a vehicle averages about RGB 60. The gallery lightens the
BACKDROP rather than the model, so what you see is the game's own colour.

Two buildings hold still on purpose: the Advanced Guard Tower and the Hand of
Nod's globe. That is not a missing feature. On the cartridge neither one has an
animation rate to advance its counter by, so the game can only ever show their
first frame, and the panel says so. Switch the bar to WHOLE CLIP to see the rest
of the art anyway.

Three more are swept rather than played: the war factory picks its frame from the
door's position, the SAM site from its launcher's facing, and the refinery rig
from the refinery's own unload stage. None of those is a clock, so the viewer runs
them forward and back at the rate the game moves them and pauses at each end. The
speed is the game's; the pause is the viewer's.
